# Klayton Hacker

## Earthenware Audio: Audio Plugin
      Music runs deep into the core of being human. To the average person, music is something more than just something you listen to, it really matters to them.  Music will never be irrelevant. Earthenware Audio is the name of our senior design project team with the goal of developing musical audio processing software. Our plan is to create a VST plugin. VST stands for “virtual studio technology” and is a digital interface standard that is used to integrate software synthesizers and audio effects with other recording software. Some of the fields I hope to work in are Digital Signal Processing, GUI development, and the VST framework. I am very exited to learn and grow while I work on this project, however my past experience and schooling will be relevant and helpful to use on this project as well.

      My schooling at the University of Cincinnati will play a huge part in my capability of achieving the goal of creating a VST plugin. I would like to talk about 3 classes in particular: Computer Science 1 (CS1021C), Design and Analysis of Algorithms (CS-4071), and Jammin’ with Laptops (FAM-2014). Computer Science 1 will come in handy because in that course I programmed in C++ for the first time and learned the basics. VST’s are strictly coded in C++ because it is better for DSP (Digital Signal Processing). Design and Analysis of Algorithms will come in handy, because we will be developing algorithms to process audio and it will be good to be able to know how to optimize them as well as measure their performance. Jammin’ with Laptops has influence me because it taught me the history of electronic music, synthesizers, and musical effects. More than anything, Jammin’ with Laptops inspired me. My co-op experiences also taught me import things that will help with the Earthenware project.

      The majority of my co-op experience was spent in the defense industry at Northrop Grumman as a software development intern and it has taught me many things. The first, and most important, thing I learned was the overall software development process. I learned countless tools that I can use the help build and test software. Even something as simple as version control is important for the senior design process because we will be working with multiple people on the same code base. The second thing I think will help me on this project is my time spent with DSP engineers. While I didn’t do much DSP work myself yet, I got the chance to interview DSP engineers, make relationships with them, and here some helpful basics when it comes to DSP. I also learned the soft skills of communication and working with other software engineers. There was a lot of lingo to pick up on. These skills will guide me in our process of making a plugin.

      The main goal of our audio plugin(s) will be to be musical and inspiring to use for musicians and producers. Too often, making music on a laptop can feel robotic and dull, I want to help capture the unpredictable and inspiring moments that come from making music in a room with people, and inject that into the digital process. Nothing will ever replace the creative process of being with other humans making music, but often mixers and producers still spend hours on the computer in audio software after everyone else leaves the studio. Three words to describe my goals when it comes to creating audio plugins are simple, inspiring, and musical. I did some research on the best tools to get started making a VST plugin and I found a great interview with Steve Duda, the creator of a plugin call Serum. He said to start by using the JUCE framework.


      Our team has already started doing research into the JUCE library and framework. We have been able to compile a simple plugin that just says, “Hello World”. It is a great place to start. I think that we will have reached our main goal when we have a plugin that is simple, inspiring, and musical. Although we have not completely decided what kind of plugin to build, there are infinite possibilities out there. Meta music is the idea that engineers can build things that inspire artist to make something that they might not have come up without that piece of gear or software. So ultimately the goal of Earthenware is to create software that inspires people to make music that really matters.
