# Constriaints

## Economic Constriaint
The use of the JUCE Framework requires using a liscensing plan provided by JUCE in relation to an organization's projected revenue for developing a plugin and
how much customization an organization wants.These plans include personal, Indie, Pro, and Education. For the development of the Earthenware plugin 
the team will use the Education plan if this plugin is published. The plan consists of an unlimited revenue that can be generated by the plugin and 
requires the implementation of a splash screen that states “Made with JUCE”. 

## Legal Constraints

Our VST plug-in is using a framework called JUCE. JUCE is an open-source cross-platform C++ application framework that can be used for the development of desktop and mobile applications. It is dual licensed under the GPLv3 and a commercial license. If you sell the plug-in you make with JUCE, you will need a commercial license.

There are multiple commercial licensing tiers for JUCE, with different terms for each:
- JUCE Personal (developers or startup businesses with revenue under 50K USD) - free
- JUCE Indie (small businesses with revenue under 500K USD) - $40/month or $800 perpetual
- JUCE Pro (no revenue limit) - $130/month or $2600 perpetual
- JUCE Educational (no revenue limit) - free for bona fide educational institutes

Depending on if we look to sell the product after our senior design presentation, we could in fact have legal ramifications.

## Diversity and Cultural Constraints
Music is a cultural production with a multitude of styles, arrangements and social contexts. To create an effective tool that covers the uses of all musical traditions would greatly complicate the project. Our senior design will be restricted to the Western music tradition, utilizing a 12-tone equal tempered system tuned to 432hz. This leaves out musical traditions such as those common to India which are not equal tempered, with notes and scale concepts featuring microtones. Within the 12-tone framework, this proejct will also be restricted to the most common scales such as major or minor. Less commonly used scales or modes common in traditions like Jazz may also be left out depending on the implementation. Adding support for other musical standards could be a topic for future work.
